# Welcome
Welcome to our workshop on doing search and indexing over a P2P network!

Before we can get to databases, we first need to cover the fundamentals of "append-only logs". We'll be referring to these logs a ton throughout the workshop, so the next few exercises will help familiarize you with the basics.

We're going to be building on top of the [Hypercore Protocol](https://hypercore-protocol.org), so before jumping into code, let's figure out what a Hypercore is.

*If you already know about Hypercore, feel free to jump ahead to the [next exercise](01.md).*

## Hypercore Is a Secure Append-Only Log
An append-only log is a super simple data structure: it's pretty much an array that only supports `push`. You can push elements into it, get the element at a specific location, and that's about it.

At a glance, this would appear useless outside of simple use-cases such as logging. But if you take a closer look, the immutability of an append-only log affords many benefits:
1. The log is "versioned" by default. Since nothing is deleted, you can explore the complete history of the log at any point in time.
2. The ordering of a log's elements never changes. This means that you can refer back to any previous state in its history using the log's length as a stable identifier (i.e. the state at length 7).
3. It's easy to cache. If you share a log with somebody, and they download first 10 items, those 10 items will never change in the future.

In the context of peer-to-peer systems, these properties turn out to be especially useful. We can take advantage of a log's immutability to construct "cryptographic proofs" about it's state, and we can use those proofs to design an efficient and secure system for sharing, or "replicating", the log with others. This ability to replicate is what we're really interested in.

Hypercore, the foundational module in our ecosystem, is just an append-only log implementation with some added machinery for working with these proofs -- we call it a "secure append-only log".

We won't be covering the internals of Hypercore in this workshop, but if you're curious you can look at the [Hypercore Protocol website](https://hypercore-protocol.org) or the [Hypercore repo](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hypercore).

## Hypercores Can Be Replicated Globally 
In Hypercore, we introduce the idea of "writers" and "readers". A Hypercore can only be appended to by its original creator, the writer. The writer maintains a private key which they use to sign a new proof each time data is appended to the Hypercore. When sharing the Hypercore with readers, the writer sends along proofs as well, so that the reader can verify that the Hypercore hasn't been tampered with.

Since proofs are distributed widely among all readers, a powerful feature emerges: Readers can share Hypercores with other readers, without needing to involve the writer at all -- they just need to re-send the proofs they were given by the writer! This is great for P2P systems. It keeps things resilient, because readers can keep the Hypercore available even after the writer goes offline, and it enables "bandwidth sharing", because readers can share the burden of distribution. 

If you're familiar with BitTorrent, this all might sound familiar. Hypercore shares many features with BitTorrent, with the addition of mutability (a writer can append to a Hypercore after sharing it with others) and live-syncing (a reader can "subscribe" to updates).

The writer's public key is used as a unique, global identifier for the Hypercore. It's a long string of bytes that looks like '135bc5fdd55c371e53c77f0412f019f9f58780c90bf506766f58d5ed83470aed'.

The Hypercore Protocol comes with a sharing and discovery system called [Hyperswarm](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hyperswarm) -- using Hyperswarm, you can ask the global network "Who has the Hypercore with key X?" and Hyperswarm will reply with peers you can connect to and replicate from.

### Hyperspace Makes Hypercore Easier

We've designed the stack with modularity in mind; you can pick and choose which modules you want to use in your P2P app. This brings flexibility, but also complexity, in that you need to know how to navigate the ecosystem before getting started.

To simplify this, we put together [Hyperspace](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hyperspace), a "batteries-included" module that let's you create and share Hypercores with minimal overhead.

In the next exercise, we'll be getting you set up with Hyperspace before getting to the real meat of the workshop.

### Let's Code!

With all that in mind, let's get you set up with Hyperspace, then play around with some logs. After you get comfortable with append-only logs, you'll start using them as primitives in higher-level data structures. Eventually, you'll have a powerful P2P database.

Next, head on over to [Exercise 1](01.md).
