# Getting started with Hyperspace

The Hypercore Protocol comes packed with modules for data structures, storage, and P2P networking. These can be challenging to set up, so we've made a simple server that gets you off the ground faster.

Why should you want to use Hyperspace, and how do you get up and running? Talk about complexities of managing lots of feeds + dealing with networking. Lots of "in practice" stuff here.

First thing, you need to do is to install the [Hyperspace](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hyperspace) command line tool.
To install it from npm do

```sh
npm install -g hyperspace
```

If your computer does not have npm or Node.js installed we recommend you get the latest LTS version from [the Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/)
After the installation has completed, you should check that it succeeded succesfully by listing the command line help.

```sh
hyperspace --help
```

Now we need to run the Hyperspace RPC server. Open another terminal and run the following

```sh
hyperspace -s 'workshop-data'
```

This will start a local RPC server and put all the data we download/store during this workshop into the `workshop-data` folder.

This command should keep running.

You can always delete this folder to get rid of it or if you want to "restart".

## Excercises

Write the following Node.js script to test that RPC server is running.

```js
const { Client } = require('hyperspace')

start()

async function start () {
  const c = new Client()

  // Ask for the RPC server status to see that everything works
  console.log(await c.status())
}
```

This script needs the Hyperspace module as well so make sure to do `npm install hyperspace` in your dev folder.

To test that this works, try running it and see that it prints something similar to

```js
{ apiVersion: '1.11.0' ... }
```

[Once you have things setup continue to problem 02](02.md)
