# (3) A Simple Stats Collector
Now that you've gotten comfortable with the basics of append-only logs, it's time to look at some simple use-cases for them. Using the append-only log interface, what kinds of things can you build?

Most useful applications will require an "index", which we'll get to soon, but it's already possible to create and share a simple time-series. In this exercise, we'll append/read some time-ordered data to/from a Hypercore. In the next two exercise, we'll hook this example up to the network and start replicating.

## New Methods
* Corestore's `get` is used in a new way: to retrieve an existing Hypercore by key.
* Hypercore's [`append` event](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hypercore#feedonappend): Emitted when a new block is appended to a Hypercore. 

## Exercises

Use the [process-top module](https://github.com/mafintosh/process-top) to append a JSON object every 5s to our append-only log containing the latest CPU/memory stats
of our process.

First, install the [process-top module](https://github.com/mafintosh/process-top) from NPM:

```sh
npm install process-top
```

Then you can use it like this:

```js
const stats = require('process-top')() // instantiate a stats collector

console.log(stats.toJSON()) // get stats
```

Running the above prints an object similar to this:

```js
{
  timestamp: 2020-11-03T12:54:52.024Z, // when was this collected
  cpu: 0.021, // cpu used (between 0-1)
  memory: {
    percent: 0.0014, // how much memory do we use (between 0-1)
    rss: 24797184,
    total: 17179869184,
    heapPercent: 0.7238, // how much of the V8 memory heap are we using
    heapUsed: 4372752,
    heapTotal: 6041600,
    external: 1667491 // how many buffers/uint8arrays are we using
  },
  delay: 0, // how long was the event loop blocked
  runtime: 2 // how many ms has the collector been running
}
```

#### Exercise 1

Make a new core, and append a stats collection every 5s to it.

Since we are gonna be storing structured data, it is useful to make the core automatically
stringify and parse JSON instead of Buffers. To do this we can use the valueEncoding option:

```js
// now get returns objects and append accepts objects
const core = store.get({ name: 'stats-collector', valueEncoding: 'json' })
```

Whenever a block of data is appended to the core the `append` event is fired.

```js
core.on('append', function () {
  // a new block of data was appended
})
```

You can use the `setInterval` function to trigger an append of stats data every 5s.

To verify that the stats collector log works, print out and parse the latest block
of data in the append event and check that a new block is printed every 5s.

<details>
  <summary>Bonus Exercise</summary>

Try adding another setInterval to your program that uses a lot of CPU or allocates a lot of memory.
Check that our stats reflect that with the cpu value or external memory option going up.

You can use the for loop from the previous exercise to print out all stats from our core.
</details>

## Stuck?

Take a look at the [solution here](/solutions/03/index.js).

[Once your stats collector works, continue to problem 04.](04a.md)
