## Basic Replication
Here we're going to introduce Hypercore replication by sharing the stats you collected in the previous exercise with another peer.

Each append-only log we make is identified by a globally unique public key. Using cryptography and the P2P network provided by Hyperspace this means that we can share the cores we create with other people around the world by simply sharing the public key.

#### Takeaways
* Get comfortable with swarming and the replication flow.
* Introduce __replication__. The last entry can be fetched from the network without loading historical data.
* There are two ways to replicate an append-only log: __sparse and eager__. With sparse replication, you only need to download the blocks you access locally.

#### Exercise
* Create a reader that swarms with the stats writer.
* Get the last entry and print it out.
* Query your collected stats -- "highest memory usage in the last hour". How can this be made faster?
* Write a recursive stats analyzer that starts at the latest, then bisects to answer simple questions.

#### Segue
* Getting the last value out isn't super useful -- you want to be able to run queries over the stats you've collected.
* So far, we're only making use of the latest block, but we could've just used an HTTP server for that! Since we're storing all historical data, we should be able to make use of that too.

## Exercises
In these next two exercises, we're going to "simulate" replication by connecting another client to your current Hyperspace server. Internally, this means that Hypercore you created in the previous exercise will be reused. In the next exercise, we'll spin up another Hyperspace instance and replicate for real.

#### Exercise 1

Let's try to read the our stats core from another process. To do this we need to know the public key of the core.

Print out the key of the stats core by adding the following to your solution from the previous exercise.

```js
await core.ready()
console.log('Stats collector public key: ' + core.key.toString('hex'))
```

#### Exercise 2

With the key from the previous exercise let's make a reader that will print out the latest process stats.
First make a new file and that makes a Hyperspace client and a corestore instance similar to the previous exercise.

To load the core from the public key you need to do this:

```js
const store = c.corestore()
const core = store.get('insert-public-key-from-above', { valueEncoding: 'json' })
await core.ready()
```

Now use the things your learned in the previous exercise to print out the the latest stats block.

Test that it works by having your stats collector run while restarting this reader script once in a while
to check that it prints out the latest stats when it starts.

[When are you ready to start P2P replicating your log continue to Problem 5.](05.md)
