## Basic Replication - Part Two

Now we are ready to start replicating our log with other peers. Replication is one of the best features of append-only logs and Hypercore especially and they can swarm with other peers in a P2P fashion, similar to things like BitTorrent.

Hyperspace exposes a simple function for sharing Hypercores over our P2P network, called `replicate`. When you call `replicate(core)`, Hyperspace will do two things: it will announce to other peers in the network that you have the core, and it will search for and connect to other peers who have the core. This is done using the [Hyperswarm DHT](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hyperswarm), if you're curious.

In the following exercises, we're going to both announce and lookup our Hypercore, meaning we'll both find other peers with the core, and tell the network that we have it too.

Let's try it out with our stats collector.

## New Methods
* Hyperspace's `replicate` function: Connects a Hypercore to other peers in the network, allowing you to replicate data to/from those peers.

## Exercises

#### Exercise 1

First thing we need to do is modify our stats collector to join the P2P network so other peers can access it to download the log.

Modify your stats collector to include the following snippet

```js
await c.replicate(core)
```

This tells the networker to expose the Hypercore on the P2P network.

The `core.discoveryKey` property here is a special key that can be used to identify a Hypercore without having to expose to what the public key of the Hypercore is, which helps provide better basic anonymity. In fact only peers that know upfront what the public key of a Hypercore is are able to download it.

Make sure to restart your stats collector after adding the above snippet.

#### Exercise 2

Now we need to update the reader from the previous exercise to join the network as well.
To do so we need to expand the reader to join the network and to fetch any length update to the log, so we are sure we are accessing the latest version.

To do this we need to add the same little snippet from above to the reader:

```js
await c.replicate(core)
```

<details>
  <summary>Hint: After adding this your full reader should look something like this</summary>
```js
const store = c.corestore()
const core = store.get('insert-public-key-here', { valueEncoding: 'json' })

await core.ready()
await c.replicate(core)

console.log(await core.get(core.length - 1))
```
</details>

We have a practical problem though! Since we are working with a P2P system we need another peer.
If you have another computer lying around you can obviously use that one, but for us "single computer" people we need a way to test.

Luckily for us, Hyperspace exposes another command line tool called `hyperspace-simulator`.

The simulator runs a separated instance of Hyperspace, complete with the full network stack, but with all storage being kept in memory.
Except for the memory part, it's similar to running it on another computer - it does the same replication as any other peer.

To run our reader with the simulator do

```
hyperspace-simulator filename.js
```

Make sure your stats collector is running and run the updated reader with the simulator.
It should print the latest that it is replicating through the network.

### Takeaways

You've connected two peers together, such that the reader can find the the writer's latest process stats. That's cool, but not super useful -- you could've just used an HTTP server for that!

Hypercore really shines when you need to fetch lots of blocks in the log, so we'll do that in the next exercise.

[When the replication is working continue to Problem 5](05.md)
