## (5) Querying Your Stats

In the last exercise, you saw how to fetch a single Hypercore block from a remote peer (in your case, the last block in the log). Now let's imagine the reader wants to ask more sophisticated questions about the process stats you're collecting.

Let's try to answer the question "What were the process' stats at, or shortly after, time T?". 

At this stage, it's important to note a basic property of Hypercore: it will download the blocks you're accessing on-demand, as you request them. We call this "sparse syncing", and it's one of Hypercore's most important features. We'll be talking a lot more about it in later exercises.

With sparse syncing in mind, it's useful to design algorithms that request as few blocks as necessary. Requesting fewer blocks means fewer roundtrips to other peers, which means faster results. It also means less bandwidth, and you'll use less storage.

## New Methods
* Hypercore's [`download` event](https://github.com/hypercore-protocol/hypercore#feedondownload-index-data): Emitted whenever a block is downloaded from a remote peer.

## Exercises

Both of these exercises extend the code you wrote for 4b, so you might want to copy that into a new file now.

#### Exercise 1

First, go ahead and solve this the "simple way" by iterating over the whole core, and examining each block to see if it matches the query. 

Pick a time that's roughly halfway between when you started collecting stats and now. If you want to get a timestamp from 10 minutes ago, you can use the snippet:
```js
const tenMinutesAgo = new Date(Date.now() - (60 * 1e4))
```

Before we start fetching blocks, let's start a periodic logging function that will print out some info about what your Hypercore is doing. We're mostly interested in how many blocks it needs to download from the remote peer in order to answer the query.

The `download` event will help here. Here's an example of how you might want to do your logging:
```js
let blocksDownloaded = 0
core.on('download', () => {
  blocksDownloaded++
})
setInterval(() => {
  console.log('Blocks Downloaded:', blocksDownloaded)
}, 5000)
```

Now start iterating over blocks and comparing them against your target timestamp! You can use `core.length` to determine the bounds of your `for` loop, inside of which you'll use `core.get`.

There are two things to take note of here:
1. Each `get` you do translates to a network request under-the-hood, meaning if your remote peer were *actually* remote, there could be several hundred milliseconds of latency between each iteration of the loop.
2. Each block you request with `get` will be cached locally, so a subsequent `get` for the same block will be almost instantaneous.

Run the query a few times, getting a feel for how long it takes. Also make sure to note how many blocks were downloaded each time.

In Problem 6 we'll see how this breaks down on large, remote datasets. But first, let's improve on this algorithm a bit.

#### Exercise 2

*Make sure to make a copy of your original, naive function from Exercise 1, so we can use it in Problem 6!*

The naive approach works, but you can see that depending on the timestamp you chose, you generally need to download a large fraction of the entire log. This feels like overkill, considering we're only interested in one block.

So far we've been neglecting an important property of the data: it's a time-series. Since all the blocks are time-ordered, we can say view time as an "implicit index" that can be used to speed up the results.

Using the exercise from above as a template, try introducing [binary search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_search_algorithm). The idea there is that you can cut the number of blocks you need to download in half after each iteration of the loop! One cool feature of Hypercore is that because it's interface is pretty close to `Array`, you can prototype your search function on Arrays, then toss in a few `awaits` and it'll work with Hypercore!

*Note: Since we aren't looking for exact matches, you'll want to use a slightly-modified version of binary search that finds the next largest element. In the Wikipedia page, search for "finding the leftmost element"*

<details>
  <summary>Hint: If you're stuck implementing binary search, peek at the solution here</summary>

```js
async function binarySearchClosestStats (core, target) {
  let lower = 0
  let upper = core.length - 1

  while (lower < upper) {
    const mid = Math.floor((upper + lower) / 2)

    const block = await core.get(mid)
    const date = new Date(block.timestamp)

    if (date < target) lower = mid + 1
    else upper = mid
  }

  return core.get(lower)
}
```
</details>

You'll notice that the query's resolved far faster, and fewer downloads are needed (`O(log_2(N)`, where `N` is the length of the Hypercore, to be exact).

We've been able to apply this optimization because our data is ordered by time. In future exercises, we'll explore how to do something similar for unordered data as well.

## Stuck?

Take a look at the [solution here](/solutions/05/index.js).

## Takeaways
We'll save the takeways for this exercise until after the next one, when we'll be running these algorithms against larger datasets.

[In Problem 6, we'll scale things up.](06.md)
