# Getting Started with Hyperbee

[Hyperbee](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee) is P2P key/value store build on top of a Hypercore using an embedded index that projects a B-tree to find and store data.

That basically means we get to store key/value pairs efficiently where each `put(key, value)` just corresponds to a small append to the underlying Hypercore with the key and value plus some routing information that allows a reader to find any keys stored already in the log efficiently.

It also exposes a sorted iterator API that allows you to use the embedded index to efficiently find ranges between two keys, which is useful when you want to build generic databases with Hyperbee as a foundation.

Since Hyperbee stores all it's data in a Hypercore, it inherits all the great replication features from that, meaning it's P2P, very fast to sync only a subset, and all data is signed and secure by the writer producing the database.

The idea of "syncing only a subset" is Hyperbee's most important feature, so it's worth expanding on. Imagine you've created a huge database of Wikipedia articles, indexed by certain some attribute (perhaps the "See Also" links at the bottom). Any reader that runs the query "Find all articles that have 'See Also' links to 'Apollo 11'" will only need to download the portions of the database necessary to complete the query, in realtime. This is often a tiny fraction of the original database, depending on the size of the result set (how specific the query is).

## Exercises

Let's get started with building with Hyperbee.
For this you should make a new file, and setup a Hyperspace client similar to what we did in the earlier exercises.

<details>
  <summary>If you are just starting here you can use our boilerplate:</summary>

```js
const { Client } = require('hyperspace')
const { corestore, replicate } = new Client()

async function main () {
  const store = corestore()
  const core = store.get({ name: 'hyperbee-exercise' })
}

main().catch((err) => {
  console.error(err.stack)
  process.exit(1)
})
```
</details>

Make sure you install Hyperbee from npm as well.

```sh
npm install hyperbee
```

#### Exercise 1

Make a Hyperbee instance and use the [`await db.put(key, value)` API](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee#await-dbputkey-value) to insert the following key/value pairs into the db.

```js
{ key: 'foo', value: 'foo-value' }
{ key: 'bar', value: 'bar-value' }
{ key: 'baz', value: 'baz-value' }
```

To instantiate the database you use the following snippet:

```js
// Important! Make sure you don't use a valueEncoding on the core itself.
const core = store.get({ name: 'hyperbee-exercise' })

// Then make a new Hyperbee on top of the core that stores string encoded keys and values.
const db = new Hyperbee(core, { keyEncoding: 'utf-8', valueEncoding: 'utf-8' })
```

To verify that you inserted the values try reading them out using [`const { value } = await db.get(key)` API](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee#-seq-key-value---await-dbgetkey).

## Takeaways

* You can see the full Hyperbee API in [the Hyperbee README](https://github.com/mafintosh)
* Try playing around with inserting more key/values. Notice how the length of the Hypercore increases by 1 everytime we insert a new pair?
* The embedded index used by Hyperbee means that you don't have to download the entire log to find a key. It only needs to download O(n) entries to find any key.

[When you are more comfortable with Hyperbee, move on to Problem 11](11.md)
