# Querying with Hyperbee - Simple Iteration

In the previous exercise we used the `put` and `get` api to insert and query for data in our database. These are nice, but often you'll want to do more sophisticated searches over larger ranges of values. As an example, in the previous exercises you might have wanted to find all stats between two timestamps.

Luckily for us Key/Value stores usually support a "range query" interface that allows you to find all values between two keys in a sorted fashion. Range queries are super powerful -- in fact, the complex queries you run in modern database systems, like SQL, can be translated into a series of simple KV range queries.

Hyperbee provides a range query interface through the [`createReadStream` method](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee#stream--dbcreatereadstreamoptions), which takes a handful of options for defining the bounds of the query, and gives you a result stream back. Here's an example:

```js
for await (const data of db.createReadStream({ gte: '>=-to-this-key', lt: '<-than-this-key' })) {
  console.log(data)
}
```

# Exercises

Let's try to make a new database and insert the full English dictionary so we have things to query for.
First install the npm module containing the dictionary as a simple array.

```sh
# this module is ~20MB large so might take a little bit to download
npm install websters-english-dictionary
```

#### Exercise 1

Make a new core for the dictionary and insert the full dictionary.

We can speed up the insertion by using the [`db.batch` API](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee#batch--dbbatch) to bulk insert it.
The batch API works similary to the put, except if you know you are inserting multiple values it can be much faster to use the batch
and it can do a series of internal optimisations in this case.

```js
// Make a new core and instantiate a new Hyperbee for that

const definitions = require('websters-english-dictionary').kvPairs()
const batch = db.batch()

for (const { key, value } of definitions) {
  // Insert all key values into the db batch
  await batch.put(key, value)
}

// Flushing the batch appends all the entries to Hyperbee efficiently.
await batch.flush()
```

After inserting the definitions, test that the data is there by using the `db.get` API to lookup the definition for "exercise".
It should return a definition starting with `1. The act of exercising; a setting ...`

#### Exercise 2

Now that we have the full dictionary stored in a Hyperbee we can try running some range queries on it.

Using the [`createReadStream` method](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperbee#stream--dbcreatereadstreamoptions), find each dictionary entry between `hello` and `helmet` (inclusive).

If your query is correct you should find the following definitions:

```
hello
hellward
helly
helm
helmage
helmed
helmet
```

#### Exercise 3

There are many options to configure the query.
Try using the reverse option and see the it reverse the stream.

[When you are done, let's investigate making special keys that allows us to make custom indexes in Problem 12](12.md)
