## (13) Querying with Hyperbee -- Key Encodings

Here we're going to correct a small (but important) bug that you might have noticed in the previous exercise.

Let's try using the secondary index from the previous exercise to answer the question "Which definitions are between 0 and 20 characters long, inclusive?" We'd express that query as:
```js
db.createReadStream({ gte: '0/', lt: '21/' })
```

When you run this query, you'll notice that the results are incorrect! Mixed in there are entries with length 100, 101...none of which belong.

The problem is that keys are sorted according to their byte representations, and we're representing numeric lengths as strings. To illustrate the problem, notice that `'100' < '20' === true`. To make sure that our numeric keys sort correctly, we need to encode them appropriately.

A simple way to fix this is to pad the keys. Assuming we know what the largest length in our dictionary is, we can zero-pad all the lengths, so that each key has the same length. This works because `'100' < '020' === false`.

Unfortunately, it's rarely the case that we know the largest key value, so we need to be more clever. Luckily, there's an NPM module called `lexicographic-integer` that solves this problem for us.

#### Exercise

Recreate the dictionary database from the previous exercise, but modify your secondary index to encode the keys as follows:
```js
const lexint = require('lexicographic-integer')
function createIndexKey (word, definition) {
  return lexint.pack(definition.length, 'hex') + '/' + word
}
```

Test your new secondary index on the following query. As a bonus, try running this query on the previous secondary index and see how it fails:
* "All definitions between lengths 0 and 20, inclusive" (there should be 10047)

Without the correct key encoding, your query would return 33474 results.

## Stuck?

Take a look at the [solution here](/solutions/13/index.js).

## Takeaways

We've now explored how to use key encodings to create numeric secondary indexes correctly. With these additional indexes, we can satisfy sophisticated range queries efficiently.

In the next exercises, you'll move away from small test data (a dictionary), and onto a large, real-world dataset.

[Index and query IMDB in Problem 14](14.md)