## (Optional) Advanced IMDB Queries
Kudos for making it this far! This section is for readers who want to go even deeper into Hyperbee queries.

We'll first try to find info about "Game of Thrones" by taking the union of two query streams. After that, the door's open to generating your own secondary indexes on the IMDB dataset.

## Exercises

#### Exercise 1

Normally for a search you would want to filter results based on multiple keywords, or potentially return the "sum" of the results.

Since search method above returns a result stream that is sorted we can actually combine multiple result streams by using a streaming union or streaming intersection algorithm.

To due a union we can use the module [sorted-union-stream](https://github.com/mafintosh/sorted-union-stream) and to due an intersection we can use [sorted-intersect-stream](https://github.com/mafintosh/sorted-intersect-stream).

To make a union of two results stream we just need to do:

```js
const union = require('sorted-union-stream')

const resultA = search('keyword1')
const resultB = search('keyword2')

const unionResult = union(resultA, result2, function (a, b) {
  if (a.key < b.key) return -1
  if (a.key > b.key) return 1
  return 0
})
```

Use the above technique to make a `searchUnion([keyword1, keyword2])` and `searchIntersection([keyword1, keyword2])` API.
Try searching for the intersection of ["game", "thrones"] or something similar to see that it works.

(Another good option is ["apollo", and "11"])

#### Exercise 2

There are tons of other secondary indexes you could make, to enable different kinds of queries. Each IMDB entry contains title, rating, genres, runtime...and more. Try coming up with a secondary index that could efficiently answer the question "What's the highest-rated Western?"